Nowadays, there are numerous of Information Technology (IT) technologies being developed and introduced to the public with the intention to simplify the daily task of the public. In particular, the embedded systems have been emerging over the past years with various systems to automate the process in user’s daily life such as switching on the lights and fans, washing machine, and air conditioner via the smartphones. Therefore, the implementation of embedded systems, with functionalities and features related to the processes often done daily, is essential and will help the developed system to stay relevant in the market. For this project which is the Smart Fire Detection and Prevention system, it is aim to help its user to detect any fire presence or potential fire inside the premises. 

If there is any potential fire occurrence or the presence of fire, the user will be alerted and notified. This system is divided into two parts which are the hardware part which is the fire detection device, and the software part which is the mobile application. 

This system will also be integrated with another system which is Smart Distribution Box system. Similarly, Smart Distribution Box system is also divided into 2 parts which are the hardware which is the distribution box, and the software part which is the mobile application. For this project specifically, it will focus only on the Smart Fire Detection and Prevention system, but, only on the hardware part (fire detection device). The necessary information regarding this project will be discussed in this report.